=== printed p. 6 ===
Letter
Page 6 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
The Army has identified modernizing its TWV fleet as a key priority. Many 
of the Army’s TWVs are based on designs last updated prior to the year 
2000. In addition, the Army would like to incorporate advances in 
technology to make the fleet more efficient and useful in future operations 
and conflicts. For the purposes of our review, we define the capabilities of 
TWVs as the technologies and abilities needed to achieve a specific 
mission, for example, the fuel capacity, or equivalent, needed to travel 
300 miles. We also define requirements as the number and types of 
TWVs needed to achieve Army objectives. 
As the Army considers how best to modernize its fleet of TWVs, it is also 
planning for changes in the way it intends to operate on the battlefield. 
Due to the rise of near-peer competitors such as China and Russia, the 
Army is developing a new warfighting concept to guide how it will engage 
jointly with other services in multiple domains. This concept, known as 
multi-domain operations (MDO), centers on presenting adversaries with 
multiple challenges through the combination of capabilities across land, 
air, sea, cyber, and space simultaneously. The Army plans to have a 
MDO-capable force in a single theater by 2028. The Army’s plans to 
change how it operates on the battlefield will affect its capabilities and 
requirements planning for vehicles within the TWV portfolio. We have 
reported previously on other adjustments the Army is making to its units 
for MDO. We also recommended in 2019 that the Army comprehensively 
assess the risk associated with staffing, equipping, and training such 
units. The Army concurred with the recommendation and stated that it will 
conduct a risk assessment in accordance with its policy and procedures 
before activating any new units.5 See figure 2 for descriptions of the 
domains. 
                                                                                                                    
5GAO, Future Warfare: Army Is Preparing for Cyber and Electronic Warfare Threats, but 
Needs to Fully Assess the Staffing, Equipping, and Training of New Organizations, 
GAO-19-570 (Washington, D.C.: Aug 15, 2019). 

=== printed p. 9 ===
Letter
Page 9 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
companies that do not typically do business with DOD. This is because 
other transaction agreements are not subject to many federal statutes 
and regulations that apply to government procurement contracts, allowing 
DOD and companies to negotiate terms and conditions specific to a 
project. DOD may enter into these transactions with a consortium, which 
may be composed of various types of entities including non-defense 
companies, and may be managed by a management company. 
Industry concentration is often used as an indicator of market 
competitiveness for specific goods or services. When a market is highly 
concentrated, a small number of companies supply a large share of the 
market, although that does not preclude the presence of multiple 
companies in that market. In less concentrated markets, the share of the 
market is distributed more evenly across a large number of companies in 
the market. For the purposes of this report, when we refer to the 
commercial truck industry, we are referring to the companies that sell 
these types of vehicles. 
The Army’s 2022 TWV Strategy Will Not 
Capture Information from All Relevant Initiatives 
for Determining TWV Needs 
The Army is developing a new TWV strategy for 2022 to guide decisions 
on TWVs, but the strategy will not capture all relevant initiatives for 
determining TWV needs. To inform its 2022 TWV Strategy, the Army is 
first conducting a study— set to issue in July 2021— to identify the 
capabilities and requirements needed for TWVs in the MDO environment. 
The study has completed its design phase and is currently in the process 
of completing the execution phase. In addition, there are a number of 
other relevant initiatives underway that could have implications for Army 
TWV capabilities and requirements. Because some of these studies will 
continue beyond the scheduled 2022 completion of the TWV Strategy, 
that strategy could benefit from updates in the future to account for 
evolving information and circumstances. According to Army officials, 
currently there is no direction or requirement to update beyond 2022. 

=== printed p. 11 ===
Letter
Page 11 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
To determine the necessary capabilities and requirements, the Army is 
using a process that focuses on three areas that encompass how TWVs 
are used on the battlefield:7
· Mobility. The ability of a unit to move from point A to B using only its 
own assets, expressed as a percentage. For example, an airborne 
unit is required to be 100 percent mobile. 
· Launch and Support Platforms. Some TWVs are used as a platform 
for weapon systems such as the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System 
or communication systems.8
· Distribution and Transportation. The conveyance and delivery of 
supplies, equipment, and troops; for example, truck companies that 
deliver water, fuel, ammunition, and food to the battlefield. 
Initial Steps in the Ongoing Multi­Domain Operations 
TWV Study Are Generally Consistent with Relevant 
Standards 
While the 2021 MDO TWV Study is not yet complete and we cannot 
assess whether the study will fully support the TWV Strategy, we found 
that the portions of the study we were able to assess were consistent with 
generally accepted research standards.9 These research standards 
identify three key elements of a study: design, execution, and 
presentation. A full list of the generally accepted research standards by 
which we assessed portions of the Army’s 2021 MDO TWV Study are 
included in appendix II. 
Design. The design of a study includes, for example, establishing the 
objective, scope, and methodology of a study, and identifying 
assumptions related to the study. We assessed the study’s objective, 
scope, methodology, and assumptions, and determined that the study’s 
overall design is consistent with generally accepted research standards. 
                                                                                                                    
7A Capabilities Based Assessment provides an analytic basis to identify capability 
requirements and associated capability gaps prior to development and submission of 
capability requirements documents for review and validation. 
8The Army refers to launch and support platforms as data interchange platforms as they 
require different Army offices to exchange in order to integrate the two systems into one. 
9GAO-15-548. 

=== printed p. 12 ===
Letter
Page 12 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
· Generally accepted research standards state that objectives outline 
what a study is intended to accomplish. The study’s objective is 
consistent with generally accepted research standards in that it 
addresses Army G-8’s direction to identify gaps and requirements to 
provide recommendations on TWV capabilities and requirements. 
This objective was broad enough to encompass the required 
capabilities of TWVs for a MDO environment as well as look 
holistically at requirements for the TWV fleet size. 
· Generally accepted research standards state that a study’s scope 
should be directly related to the objectives and define the subject 
matter to be assessed and reported on. We found that the study’s 
scope addresses study objectives and includes the TWVs the Army 
needs for a notional force in a European MDO environment — the 
stressor force for the study according to Futures and Concepts Center 
officials. This force included about 66 percent of the types of units 
currently used in the Army and included use of some surrogate units 
for those that currently do not exist but may in 2028— such as 
Strategic Fires Battalions. The scope is also relevant to the Indo-
Pacific Theater as the types of units in the study represented about 95 
percent of that theater’s types of units. According to Army officials, 
this commonality will allow the Army to extrapolate the results to other 
theaters. 
· According to generally accepted research standards, assumptions 
underlying a study should be explicitly identified to provide a better 
understanding of how the analysis was conducted and how it reached 
its findings and conclusions. Sensitivity analysis against these 
assumptions can also mitigate for them. The assumptions used within 
the study are consistent with these standards as they are clearly 
defined, and mitigation assessments were performed. For example, 
the Army assumes an operational readiness rate of 90 percent but 
then mitigates for this assumption by varying readiness rates to 
perform sensitivity analysis according to Army officials. 
Execution. Because the 2021 MDO TWV Study is ongoing, we limited 
our assessment to a portion of the execution phase of the study. In 
particular, we assessed the methodology, modeling, data use, and 
limitations and found that these elements of the study’s execution are 
consistent with generally accepted research standards. 
· Generally accepted research standards state that a study’s 
methodology should be consistent with and address a study’s 
objective. We found that the study’s methodology included an 
assessment of all three of its lines of effort using a capabilities based 

=== printed p. 13 ===
Letter
Page 13 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
assessment that identified the operational tasks, conditions, and 
standards needed to achieve military objectives; assessed current 
and future capabilities to identify gaps; and sought to determine TWV 
solutions. 
· Generally accepted research standards require that models are 
adequate for the intended purpose, represent a complete range of 
conditions, and that data used are valid and complete. We found that 
the study’s model is consistent with these criteria as it is a generally 
accepted model used by the Army for various efforts with similar 
purposes. For example, for the Distribution and Transportation line of 
effort, the Army used its standard Logistics Battle Command model. 
This model simulates the consumption and distribution of all classes 
of supply at either the platform level or the unit level. While the model 
requires extensive data inputs from various sources, Army modeling 
officials told us they use an internal verification and validation process 
involving experts not involved with the project to review the model and 
ensure it is appropriate. 
· Generally accepted research standards state that the data used in a 
study should be valid for the intended research purpose and reliable 
in that they are consistent and verifiable. We found the data used by 
the study are consistent with research standards for validity and 
reliability. For example, the study used the expertise of the Future 
Operational Environment Directorate within the Futures and Concepts 
Center to validate two elements of the evaluation criteria for the 
Mobility line of effort: Priority of Targeting and Signature Detection. In 
addition, subject matter experts reviewed the mobility percentages for 
each unit to determine their reliability. The Launch and Support 
Platforms line of effort used an Army force design update process to 
identify capability gaps and potential solutions. The Army then 
provided information on the identified solutions to program managers 
to validate how many vehicles were required to meet these expected 
gaps. Finally, subject matter experts from the Capabilities 
Developments Integration Directorates reviewed and validated data 
for the Distribution and Transportation line of effort at workshops 
conducted prior to modeling. 
· Studies generally have limitations. Generally accepted research 
standards do not require the elimination of all limitations but do call for 
limitations to be identified, assessed, mitigated, and explained. We 
determined that the study identified limitations and associated 
mitigation efforts. For example, in the Distribution and Transportation 
line of effort, the Army identified the lack of a sufficient, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense-approved, Multi-Domain Operations Defense 

=== printed p. 14 ===
Letter
Page 14 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
Planning Scenario for the European theater as a limitation.10 To 
mitigate this limitation, modeling officials stated they modified an 
existing scenario previously developed to support a European 
Command wargame. 
Another limitation identified for this line of effort was a sustainment 
analysis focused on distribution from the theater operations down to 
the brigade level. Modeling officials stated that no mitigation was 
necessary for this limitation since there were no specific shortfalls 
identified at the brigade level. 
· As the study is not yet complete, we were not able to examine the 
consistency and verifiability of data measurement as well as the 
description and documentation of the models used for the study. 
According to MDO TWV Study officials, they delayed the final report from 
March 2021 until July 2021 due to the time required to accurately define 
the level of detail needed for the force used in the model. The initial 
results indicated the potential need for an increase in TWVs and 
associated trailers due to mobility requirements and the need for 
additional launch and support platforms. However, Army officials stated 
that these results did not reflect the results of modeling and relied, in part, 
on previously completed analyses. Recently, Army officials told us that 
the initial results of modeling for the Distribution and Transportation line of 
effort shows the current TWV fleet is sufficient to provide sustainment. 
Therefore, the preliminary results showing a potential increase may no 
longer be accurate. 
Army Is Assessing Additional Information but Has No 
Direction to Update the Strategy beyond 2022 
While the MDO TWV Study is central to the strategy, other initiatives 
cover topics directly related to TWV capabilities and requirements as well. 
According to Army officials, however, there is no Army directive, policy, or 
guidance to routinely update the results of the MDO TWV study or the 
strategy. As currently scheduled, the Army will issue its new TWV 
strategy in fiscal year 2022 which will not account for all relevant 
                                                                                                                    
10We have reported previously that DOD has not kept its planning scenarios up-to-date. 
As a result, we found that senior DOD leaders do not have the analytic support they need 
to evaluate investments in capabilities and requirements. GAO, Defense Strategy: 
Revised Analytic Approach Needed to Support Force Structure Decision-Making, 
GAO-19-385 (Washington, D.C., March 2019). DOD concurred with all three 
recommendations made in this report. 

=== printed p. 35 ===
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and 
Methodology
Page 35 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, 
and Methodology 
The House Armed Services Committee report accompanying the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 and the Senate Armed 
Services Committee report accompanying a bill for the same act included 
provisions for GAO to assess the Army’s new tactical wheeled vehicle 
(TWV) strategy and implementation efforts as well as an analysis of the 
TWV industrial base and the potential for competition.1 This report 
assesses (1) the Army’s progress in identifying specific capabilities and 
requirements for its 2022 TWV Strategy, (2) the extent to which the Army 
has pursued opportunities for competition in contracts for TWVs, and (3) 
the extent to which opportunities exist for expanding the TWV industrial 
base. Prior to completing its new TWV Strategy in fiscal year 2022, the 
Army is conducting a Multi-Domain Operations (MDO) TWV Study in 
fiscal year 2021 to inform the strategy. 
To address the Army’s progress in identifying specific capabilities and 
requirements for its 2022 TWV Strategy, we reviewed the Army’s 2021 
MDO TWV Study looking at the Army’s TWV fleet capabilities and 
requirements required for operating in a MDO environment which is 
intended to inform the strategy. Both the 2022 TWV Strategy and 2021 
MDO TWV Study are not complete. To guide our assessment of the 2021 
MDO TWV Study, we relied on generally accepted research standards for 
the design, execution and presentation of findings that define a sound 
and complete study, which we identified in previous work.2 The 2021 
MDO TWV Study final report was not available during the time of our 
audit so we were able to assess only the design portion and portions of 
the execution of the study against the standards. Appendix II provides a 
list of these standards and associated questions. We also reviewed 
documents the study’s authors said guided the conduct of the study: (1) 
the Army Deputy Chief of Staff G-8 request in an April 30, 2020 memo 
stating the objective of the 2021 MDO TWV Study, and (2) the Army 
                                                                                                                    
1House Report No. 116-442 accompanying the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, Pub. L. No. 116-283 (Jan. 1, 2021) and S. 
Rep. No. 116-236, accompanying S. 4049, 116th Cong. (2nd Sess. 2020).  
2GAO, Army Combat Vehicles: Industrial Base Study’s Approach Met Research 
Standards, GAO-15-548 (Washington, D.C.: June 16, 2015). 

=== printed p. 36 ===
Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and 
Methodology
Page 36 GAO-21-460  Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
Futures Command Futures and Concepts Center’s FCC OPORD 19-014: 
Multi-Domain Operations Tactical Wheeled Vehicle Study.3 In addition, 
we reviewed the Standards for Internal Control in the Federal 
Government on the use of quality information to achieve an entity’s 
objectives (13.01).4 
To assess the 2021 MDO TWV Study, we interviewed the study’s authors 
to better understand how the study was conducted, and to understand the 
scope, methodology, analyses, assumptions, limitations, data sources, 
and data validity and reliability steps taken as a part of the study. We also 
reviewed relevant study documentation such as slides that detail the 
methodological pieces of the study and various initiatives the Army was 
conducting to inform the study and the strategy. 
To determine the extent to which the Army’s study addressed the 
information required by the Army Deputy Chief of Staff G-8 direction, we 
reviewed and analyzed the April 30, 2020 memo providing direction and 
compared it to the study’s objective and methodology. 
To assess the study against the evidence obtained as a result of our 
work, two GAO analysts used a data collection tool to independently 
evaluated the Army study against the generally accepted research 
standards for a reasonable and complete study. Based on a review of the 
study and supporting documentation, and consultation with a GAO survey 
and research methodology specialist, we followed up with discussions 
and written requests for additional information and clarifications from the 
study’s authors. The two analysts then completed their independent 
analyses, and the GAO team compared the two sets of observations, 
discussed, and reconciled any differences. 
We also held discussions about the study with Army officials from 
· Army Futures Command Futures and Concepts Center (the study’s 
author who is responsible for requirements development), 
· Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff, G-8 (responsible for determining 
the affordability of TWVs), 
                                                                                                                    
3Department of the Army, Deputy Chief of Staff, G-8, Memorandum, Tactical Wheeled 
Vehicle Study (Apr. 30, 2020). 
4GAO, Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government, GAO-14-704G 
(Washington, D.C.: Sept. 10, 2014). 